---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "matomo_tagmanager_tag_etracker Resource - terraform-provider-matomo"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  etracker is a web analytics system, you can choose to send a pageview or an event.
---

# matomo_tagmanager_tag_etracker (Resource)

etracker is a web analytics system, you can choose to send a pageview or an event.

## Example Usage

```terraform
provider "matomo" {}

resource "matomo_site" "example" {
  name = "Example Etracker Site"
  urls = ["https://example-etracker.example.com"]
}

resource "matomo_tagmanager_container" "example" {
  site_id = matomo_site.example.id
  context = "web"
  name    = "Example Etracker Container"
}

resource "matomo_tagmanager_trigger" "example" {
  container_id = matomo_tagmanager_container.example.id
  type         = "PageView"
  name         = "Example Etracker Trigger"
}

resource "matomo_tagmanager_tag_etracker" "example" {
  container_id = matomo_tagmanager_container.example.id
  name         = "example-etracker"
  fire_trigger_ids = [matomo_tagmanager_trigger.example.id]
  tracking_type = "addtocart"
  etracker_add_to_cart_product = "example-value"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `container_id` (String)
- `fire_trigger_ids` (List of String)
- `name` (String)
- `tracking_type` (String) Choose which action should be executed when this tag is fired.

### Optional

- `block_trigger_ids` (List of String)
- `etracker_add_to_cart_number` (String) Number of products added to the cart
- `etracker_add_to_cart_product` (String) dataLayer object of the product - according to etracker reference
- `etracker_config` (String) Assign a etracker configuration in order to track data into a specific site.
- `etracker_event_action` (String) The event's action, for example, click, open, close, play, pause…
- `etracker_event_category` (String) The event's category, for example Navigation, Outbound Links, 404 Error…
- `etracker_event_object` (String) The event's object Name, for example a particular navigation element, a clicked element, form name,…
- `etracker_event_type` (String) The event's type Name, for example an value of a send form…
- `etracker_form_data` (String) eg. form section information. If used, a string is required
- `etracker_form_name` (String) Form Name titles the report of the form which is tracked
- `etracker_form_type` (String) Conversion / Form View / Field View / Field Interaction / Field Error
- `etracker_transaction_basket` (String) dataLayer object of basket - according to etracker reference
- `etracker_transaction_currency` (String) Currency of the order according to ISO 4217 e.g.: EUR or USD
- `etracker_transaction_customer_group` (String) optional, e.g. new customer, existing customer, big buyer, VIP
- `etracker_transaction_debug_mode` (Boolean)
- `etracker_transaction_delivery_conditions` (String) optional, e.g. Delivery to the kerb, Setup on site, Delivery to the pick-up station/parcel shop/branch
- `etracker_transaction_id` (String) Order ID, transaction id or similar - max 50 chars
- `etracker_transaction_payment_conditions` (String) optional, e.g. Special payment targets, Cash discount, Payment in instalments
- `etracker_transaction_type` (String) Sale / Lead / Partial Cancellation / Cancellation
- `etracker_transaction_value` (String) Order Value
- `etracker_wrapper_area` (String) The area should be separated by Slash
- `etracker_wrapper_basket` (String)
- `etracker_wrapper_cust` (String)
- `etracker_wrapper_pagename` (String) The wrappers's pagename
- `etracker_wrapper_target` (String)
- `etracker_wrapper_tonr` (String)
- `etracker_wrapper_tsale` (String)
- `etracker_wrapper_tval` (String)
- `status` (String)

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
